---
layout: post
title: "Volume of a d-ball and Computing the Bessel Function"
author: "Milagros N. Cortez"
categories: statistics
tags: [R, Monte Carlo Sampling, Beta Distribution, R Markdown]
image: "Screenshot (711).jpg"
listed:
- R
- Monte Carlo Sampling
- Beta Distribution
- R Markdown
link: "Stat 413 Assignment 2.pdf"
type: "PDF"
updated: "14/07/2023"
---

## About

This document is part of a series of assignments from Stat 413 (Computing for Data Science) which explores the curse of dimensionality by estimating the volume of a d-ball and computing the Bessel function using Monte Carlo sampling with uniform and beta distributions.

The course of dimensionality is a phenomena that occurs in high-dimensional spaces. In this project, we explore the volume of a hypersphere inside a hypercube. We note that as the dimension increases to five, we reach the largest volume of a hypersphere in a hypercube of the same dimensionality. As we increase the number of dimensions after 5, the volume of a hypersphere decreases drastically while the volume of a hypercube continues to increase.

## Process

For the first part of this document, we compute the volume of a d-ball (hypersphere) inside a hypercube using Monte Carlo volume estimation which samples uniform and non-uniform densities. We use three sampling distributions (Uniform[-1,1], beta(1/2, 1/2), and beta(2,2)) to estimate the volume of a d-ball at d=4 and d=15 dimensions to find the sampling function that gives an estimated volume close to the true value. For each sampling function used, we get the estimated volume of the d-ball, variance, and 95% error bounds. 

In the second part of the document, we compute the Bessel function using Monte Carlo sampling on Uniform[0, \pi ], Beta(1/2, 1/2), and Beta (2,2). We explore nine cases of the Bessel function and obtain the true value, estimated value, and 95% error bounds of each case under each distribution. 
